                       History and Agreement

This code originally  started out in May 2004 as  a small mutation
of crm_markovian.c,  which was copyright W.S.  Yerazunis, with the
introduction of OSB - Orthogonal  Sparse Bigrams. OSB is a feature
generation technique developed by  Fidelis Assis as an improvement
over the token combination method used in the Markovian code. That
change resulted in crm_osb_bayes.c, the OSB classifier.

The OSB technique was officially announced in the paper "Combining
Winnow  with  Orthogonal  Sparse   Bigrams  for  Incremental  Spam
Filtering", a  work headed and  presented by Christian  Siefkes in
the  8th  European  Conference   on  Principles  and  Practice  of
Knowledge Discovery in Databases (PKDD), on September 2004.

With the creation  of a new technique for feature  selection - the
Confidence Factor, aka "Voodoo", by Fidelis Assis in October 2004,
the  OSBF classifier  was  first developed  in  CRM114 by  Fidelis
Assis,  combining   OSB  with  the  Confidence   Factor.  The  new
classifier  was then  dual-licensed to  William S.  Yearazunis and
Fidelis Assis.

The  Confidence Factor  was later  renamed to  EDDC -  Exponential
Differential Document  Count, and officially presented  in the MIT
Spam Conference 2006.

In January  2005, Fidelis Assis  started the OSBF-Lua  project and
continued  to  improve the  OSBF  code  as  a  module to  the  Lua
language.  It  has now  mutated  beyond  the  ability of  diff  to
recognize or  correlate it  (do a  diff to see  how little  of the
original  structure remains  - the  variables and  their uses  are
often the same, but almost no lines of code remain intact).

So, rather than argue 'derivative work' and all that, it is agreed
that: Both Fidelis Assis and William S. Yerazunis have full rights
to the source code embodying OSB and  OSBF in both OSBF-Lua and in
CRM114 (that  is, the  OSBF-Lua modules  osbf_bayes.c, osbf_aux.c,
osbflib.h, and losbflib.c and  the CRM114 modules crm_osb_bayes.c,
crm_osbf_bayes.c,   crm_osbf_maintenance.c,    crm114_osbf.h   and
osbf-util.c).

This mutual exchange of full  rights explicitly includes the right
to relicense the code under any other license, as desired.

It is  also agreed that  primary copyright is assigned  to Fidelis
Assis for the OSBF-Lua modules  above, and to William S. Yerazunis
for  the CRM114  modules above;  each grants  the other  secondary
copyright on the CRM114 and OSBF-Lua modules respectively.

- Fidelis S. G. Assis
- William S. Yerazunis

